CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to AutoDispose
=======================

The Uber team welcomes contributions of all kinds, from simple bug reports through documentation, test cases,
bugfixes, and features.

Workflow
--------

We love GitHub issues!

For small feature requests, an issue first proposing it for discussion or demo implementation in a PR suffice.

For big features, please open an issue so that we can agree on the direction, and hopefully avoid 
investing a lot of time on a feature that might need reworking.

Small pull requests for things like typos, bugfixes, etc are always welcome.

DOs and DON'Ts
--------------

* DO follow our coding style (link eventually goes here)
* DO include tests when adding new features. When fixing bugs, start with adding a test that highlights how the current behavior is broken.
* DO keep the discussions focused. When a new or related topic comes up it's often better to create new issue than to side track the discussion.
* DO run all Gradle verification tasks (`./gradlew check`) before submitting a pull request

* DON'T submit PRs that alter licensing related files or headers. If you believe there's a problem with them, file an issue and we'll be happy to discuss it.

Commit message:

Integrate Spotless for lint/formatting checks (#342)
* Integrate spotless in build

* Update CONTRIBUTING.md

* Run spotlessApply over the whole repo

* Remove unnecessary placeholder in contributing

* Add missing (C) to copyrights

* Remove checkstyle configs

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to AutoDispose
=======================

The Uber team welcomes contributions of all kinds, from simple bug reports through documentation, test cases,
bugfixes, and features.

Workflow
--------

We love GitHub issues!

For small feature requests, an issue first proposing it for discussion or demo implementation in a PR suffice.

For big features, please open an issue so that we can agree on the direction, and hopefully avoid 
investing a lot of time on a feature that might need reworking.

Small pull requests for things like typos, bugfixes, etc are always welcome.

### Code style

This project uses [ktlint](https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint) and [GJF](https://github.com/google/google-java-format), 
provided via the [spotless](https://github.com/diffplug/spotless) gradle plugin.

If you find that one of your pull reviews does not pass the CI server check due to a code style 
conflict, you can easily fix it by running: ./gradlew spotlessApply.

Generally speaking - we use vanilla ktlint + 2space indents, and vanilla GJF. You can integrate both of
these in IntelliJ code style via either [GJF's official plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8527-google-java-format)
or applying code style from Jetbrains' official style.

No star imports please!

DOs and DON'Ts
--------------

* DO follow our coding style
* DO include tests when adding new features. When fixing bugs, start with adding a test that highlights how the current behavior is broken.
* DO keep the discussions focused. When a new or related topic comes up it's often better to create new issue than to side track the discussion.
* DO run all Gradle verification tasks (`./gradlew check`) before submitting a pull request

* DON'T submit PRs that alter licensing related files or headers. If you believe there's a problem with them, file an issue and we'll be happy to discuss it.
